It's at least possible that, uh, the fear of death,
the terror of your mortality is the creative force that created
all of the things around us at this human civilization. Yeah. Well, and,
and I think about from an engineering perspective,
this is where I lose all of my robotics.
Uh, colleagues is, I feel like if you want to create intelligence,
you have to also engineer in some kind of
echoes of this kind of fear of, um, and not, you know,
fear is such a complicated word, but kind of a, like a scarcity,
uh, a scarcity of time of scarcity of resources that creates a kind of
anxiety, like deadlines, get you to do stuff. Yeah.
And there's something almost fundamental to that in terms of, uh,
human experience. Yeah.
Well, that's an interesting thought.
So you're basically in order to create
a kind of
structure that mirrors what we call consciousness. Yes.
You better have that structure confront the same kinds of
issues and terrors that, that, that we.
Do self consciousness and suffering only makes sense in the context of death,
if you want to, I feel like if you want to fit into humans as society,
if you, if you're a robot and if you want to fit into human society,
you better have the same kind of existential dread the
same kind of fear of mortality. Otherwise you're not gonna fit in. Right.
<laugh>.
<Laugh>.
That's good. It might be, it might be wild,
but it at least like we're to talking about all the theories that are at least
worth consideration, I think that's a really powerful one.
And definitely one has, uh, resonated with me and, um,
definitely seems to capture something
beautifully, like real about the human condition.
<affirmative> and I,
I wonder it's of course sucks to think that we need death
to appreciate life. Um, but, uh,
that's just may be the way it is. Well.
It's interesting if this robotic or artificially intelligent system
understands the world and understands the second law of the thermodynamics and
entropy,
even in artificial intelligence will realize that even if it's parts are really
robust, ultimately it will disintegrate.
Yeah. I mean, so the time scales may be different, but in a way,
when you think about it,
doesn't matter once you know that you are mortal in the sense that you are not
eternal, <affirmative> the time scale hardly matters.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> because it's,
it's either the whole thing or not because on the scales of eternity,
any finite duration, however,
large is effectively zero mm-hmm <affirmative> on the scales of eternity.
And so maybe it won't be so hard for an artificial system to feel that sense of
mortality,
because it will recognize the underlying physical laws and recognize its own
fine.
And then it'll be us and robots drinking beers,
looking up at the stars and just the, uh,
you know, <laugh>, uh, having a good laugh in awe of the whole thing.
Yeah,
I think that's a pretty good way to end it talking about the fear of death.
We started talking about the meaning of life and ended on the fear of death.
Brian, it's just an incredible conversation. My pleasure. Thank God. Really,
really enjoyed it. It's been a long time coming. I'm a huge fan of your work,
a huge fan of your writing. Thanks for talking to me, Brian. Thank you.